in December the UN Security Council
adopted resolution
2720 calling for among other things the
Secretary General to appoint a senior
humanitarian and reconstruction
coordinator for Gaza srred Cog was
appointed to the role and 6 months later
during a briefing to the council she
spoke of incremental progress and
challenges out of her control
deliverables include the establishment
of additional supply routes the
Streamline and facilitation which has
taken place whilst the space for
acceleration remains very much subject
to political will as well as the
enabling environment and conditions on
the ground there is no substitute for
political will she would not elaborate
on who she meant by lack of political
will but in her briefing she was at
times critical of Israel since the start
of the Israeli military operation rafah
and the subsequent closure of the rafah
border crossing in early May the volume
of Aid entering into Gaza or being
distributed ac across Gaza has dropped
significantly military activity and the
lack of safe routes inside Gaza continue
to severely impact humanitarian
operations some ccil members expressed
frustration in spite of for res
Solutions in spite of the icj order in
spite of this mechanism in spite of all
briefings and commitments the
humanitarian situation is not getting
better after coming out of closed door
consultations Russia's Ambassador said
Cog is trying but her Aid mechanism
isn't
working it really doesn't function
because of the absence of the ceasefire
the absence of the ceasefire the absence
of the ceasefire and the absence of the
ceasefire serr Cog also told the council
that by the middle of this month she's
hoping to have up and running an aid
corridor from Egypt
she said there are un monitors ready to
deploy to Gaza to oversee the
distribution of that Aid if they receive
the necessary Visa approvals from the
Israeli authorities Gabriel zando Al
jaaz at the United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer